
Back to [Fundamentos de Ciberseguridad - Curso NetAcad](../Fundamentos%20de%20Ciberseguridad%20-%20Curso%20NetAcad.md)

Attackers can also use the web and email to spread malicious code.

# Email
## Spam

Spam, junk mail or unsolicited email refer to a type of email that contain deceptive information, harmful links, advertisement and others. Spam can be considered as a social engineering attack.
The goal of spam is to get peoples sensitive information, click in shady advertisement, scams, and others.

Spam is usually sent by multiple computers that where infected previously by a virus or worm.

## Spyware

Spyware is a software that has the objective to collect as much information as possible from the victims computers.

Spyware can be used by cybercriminals, or legal corporations.

Common types of spyware include anything made by Microsoft, Meta, Google, and apps like Tik Tok.

## Adware

Adware is a type of malware that displays aggressive advertisement and pop-ups, with the intention to get the user to click on these ads, so they can redirect them to malicious websites.

## Scareware

The idea of scareware is to persuade the user to take an action by scaring them. This is done by showing fake messages of the operating system is at risk of some type, and that the way to solve it is by doing what the scareware says.

## Phishing

Phishing is a form of fraud, where the criminal pretends to be a a reputable entity, with the propuse of getting the user to give sensible information.

Spear Phishing is a type of phishing where the criminal previously research the interests of the victim, in such a way to make a phishing attack more personalized and more effective.

# Browser

## Plugins

Plugins are pieces of software that are installed in a web browser as an extension. Criminals can use these plugins to find vulnerabilities to gain access to the computer.

## SEO Poisoning

Search Engine Optimization Poisoning is a type a attack that forces malicious websites higher into the rank of search results form a search engine like Google.

## Browser Hijacker

Is a type of malware that alters the browser settings to redirect the user to a malicious website. 


# Defending against email and browser attacks

Social engineering attacks are much harder to stop, and mostly require people to be educated in these topics to avoid falling for an attack of this type.

Back to [Fundamentos de Ciberseguridad - Curso NetAcad](../Fundamentos%20de%20Ciberseguridad%20-%20Curso%20NetAcad.md)

